Updated DevTools page (#7307)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/devtools/index.md

       The DevTools page has access to the DevTools APIs, for example, creating panels.",
       height="556", width="522" %}

The DevTools-specific extension APIs include the following:

- [`devtools.inspectedWindow`][api-inspectedwindow]
- [`devtools.network`][api-network]
- [`devtools.panels`][api-panels]

> - [`devtools.recorder` (preview feature)][api-recorder]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`devtools.recorder`][api-recorder]
```

## The DevTools page {: #devtools-page }

When a DevTools window opens, a DevTools extension creates an instance of its DevTools page that
exists as long as the window is open. This page has access to the DevTools APIs and some other
extension APIs, and can do the following:

- Create and interact with panels using the [`devtools.panels`][api-panels] APIs, including adding other extension pages as panels or sidebars to the DevTools window.
- Get information about the inspected window and evaluate code in the inspected window using the
  [`devtools.inspectedWindow`][api-inspectedwindow] APIs.
- Get information about network requests using the [`devtools.network`][api-network] APIs.
- Extend the [Recorder panel](/docs/devtools/recorder/) using the [`devtools.recorder`][api-recorder] APIs (preview feature).

The DevTools page can't use most extensions APIs directly. Instead, it uses the same subset of
the [`extension`][api-extension] and [`runtime`][api-runtime] APIs as content scripts do, and

> communicates with the service worker using [Message Passing][doc-message-passing]. For an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communicates with the service worker using [message passing][doc-message-passing]. For an
```

}
```

The `devtools_page` field must point to an HTML page. Because the DevTools
page must be local to your extension, we recommend specifying it it using a relative URL.

> The `chrome.devtools.*` API modules are available only to the pages loaded within the DevTools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The members of the `chrome.devtools` API are available only to the pages loaded within the DevTools
```

Reviewer: If you run into any more API names done with wild cards at the end, please remove them.

window while that window is open. Content scripts and other extension pages don't have access
to these APIs.

> For information on additional experimental DevTools APIs, refer to [chrome.experimental.\*
> APIs][api-index].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: `chrome.experimental` is actually gone.

- A _panel_ is a top-level tab, like the Elements, Sources, and Network panels.
- A _sidebar pane_ presents supplementary UI related to a panel. The Styles, Computed Styles, and
  Event Listeners panes on the Elements panel are examples of sidebar panes. Depending on the
  version of Chrome you're using and where the DevTools window is docked, your sidebar panes might
  look like the following example image:

{% Img src="image/BrQidfK9jaQyIHwdw91aVpkPiib2/TDNgfhI9byR4eeGQ0Xxv.png", class="screenshot",
    alt="DevTools window showing Elements panel and Styles sidebar pane.", height="302", width="770" %}

> Each panel is its own HTML file, which can include other resources (JavaScript, CSS, images, and so

Reviewer: Please [add captions to images](https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#captions) when you encounter them.

You don't need to go back and fix images you may have missed in other edits. This isn't as crucial as the quality edits, and I'm sure we'll get them all eventually.

Author: Thanks for the heads-up!

There are several ways to display content in a sidebar pane:

> - HTML content: Call [`setPage`][api-panels-setpane] to specify an HTML page to display in the pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HTML content: Call [`setPage()`][api-panels-setpane] to specify an HTML page to display in the pane.
```

> - JSON data: Pass a JSON object to [`setObject`][api-panels-setobject].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JSON data: Pass a JSON object to [`setObject()`][api-panels-setobject].
```

> - JavaScript expression: Pass an expression to [`setExpression`][api-panels-setexpression]. DevTools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JavaScript expression: Pass an expression to [`setExpression()`][api-panels-setexpression]. DevTools
```

  evaluates the expression in the context of the inspected page, then displays the return value.

> For both `setObject` and `setExpression`, the pane displays the value as it would appear in the
> DevTools console. However, `setExpression` lets you display DOM elements and arbitrary JavaScript
> objects, while `setObject` only supports JSON objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both `setObject()` and `setExpression()`, the pane displays the value as it would appear in the
DevTools console. However, `setExpression()` lets you display DOM elements and arbitrary JavaScript
objects, while `setObject()` only supports JSON objects.
```

## Communicate between extension components {: #solutions }

The following sections describe some helpful ways to allow DevTools extension components to
communicate with each other.

### Inject a content script {: #injecting }

The DevTools page can't call [`scripting.executeScript()`][api-scripting-executescript] directly. To
inject a content script from the DevTools page, you must retrieve the inspected window's tab ID
using the [`inspectedWindow.tabId`][api-inspectedwindow-tabid] property and send a message to
the background page. From the background page, call

> [`scripting.executeScript`][api-scripting-executescript] to inject the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`scripting.executeScript()`][api-scripting-executescript] to inject the script.
```

});
```

If a content script has already been injected, you can add additional context scripts using the
`eval()` method. See [Pass the Selected Element to a Content Script][header-selected-element] for
more information.

### Evaluate JavaScript in the inspected window {: #evaluating-js }

You can use the [`inspectedWindow.eval()`][api-inspectedwindow-eval] method to execute JavaScript
code in the context of the inspected page. You can invoke the `eval()` method from a DevTools page,
panel, or sidebar pane.

Caution: Use `eval()` only if you need access to the JavaScript content of an inspected page. Otherwise,

> we recommend using the [`scripting.executeScript()`][api-scripting-executescript] method run scripts. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we recommend using [`scripting.executeScript()`][api-scripting-executescript] to run scripts. For
```

Reviewer: This is legitimately a caution. Please make it [an aside](https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#caution-asides). FYI, the word 'caution' will be supplied by the aside so please remove it.

Author: Got it. For what it's worth, the Dev Docs style guide does it [this way](https://developers.google.com/devsite/reference/styles/notices#caution), and I didn't realize you've implemented it differently.

more information, see [`inspectedWindow`][api-inspectedwindow].

By default, the expression is evaluated in the context of the main frame of the page.
`inspectedWindow.eval()` uses the same script execution context and options as code
entered in the DevTools console, which allows access to DevTools [Console Utilities

> API][doc-utilities] features within the eval. For example, [SOAK][gh-soak] uses it for inspecting an element:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API][doc-utilities] features when using `eval()`. For example, [SOAK][gh-soak] uses it for inspecting an element:
```

});
```

If a content script has already been injected, you can add additional context scripts using the

> `eval()` method. See [Pass the Selected Element to a Content Script][header-selected-element] for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`eval()` method. See [Pass the selected element to a content script][header-selected-element] for
```

);
```

> You can also use the `useContentScriptContext: true` option for `inspectedWindow.eval()` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set the `useContentScriptContext` to `true` when calling `inspectedWindow.eval()` to
```

> evaluate the expression in the same context as the content scripts. To use this option, you must load a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
evaluate the expression in the same context as the content scripts. To use this option, use a [static content script declaration][static-declaration]
```

Reviewer: The link is here. GitHub won't let me edit the line where this needs to go. Can you please add it.

https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/content_scripts/#static-declarative

Author: Done.

context script before calling `eval`, either by calling `executeScript` or by specifying a content

> script in the `manifest.json` file. After the context script context loads, you can also use this option to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the `manifest.json` file. After the context script context loads, you can also use this option to
```

Author: This paragraph is more of a mess than I realized. Which ones should be "content" and which ones "context"?

Reviewer: I don't know what I was thinking when I removed this. It was a mistake.

);
```

You can also set the `useContentScriptContext` to `true` when calling `inspectedWindow.eval()` to

> evaluate the expression in the same context as the content scripts. To use this option, use a [static content script declaration][static-declaration] before calling `eval`, either by calling `executeScript` or by specifying a content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
evaluate the expression in the same context as the content scripts. To use this option, use a [static content script declaration][static-declaration] before calling `eval()`, either by calling `executeScript()` or by specifying a content
```

To pass the selected element to a content script:

1. Create a method in the content script that takes the selected element as an argument.

<!--Update this code-->
  ```js
  function setSelectedElement(el) {
      // do something with the selected element
  }
  ```

2. Call the method from the DevTools page using [`inspectedWindow.eval()`][api-inspectedwindow-eval]
  with the `useContentScriptContext: true` option.

  ```js
  chrome.devtools.inspectedWindow.eval("setSelectedElement($0)",
      { useContentScriptContext: true });
  ```

The `useContentScriptContext: true` option specifies that the expression must be evaluated in the
same context as the content scripts, so it can access the `setSelectedElement` method.

### Get a reference panel's `window` {: #panel-window }

To call `postMessage()` from a devtools panel, you'll need a reference to its `window` object. Get a

> panel's iframe window in <!--what does "get in" mean here? Is there a technical term we can use?--> from the the [`panel.onShown`][api-panels-onshown] event handler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
panel's iframe window from the the [`panel.onShown`][api-panels-onshown] event handler:
```

Reviewer: It was just a typo.

});
```

### Send messages between content scripts and the DevTools page {: #content-script-to-devtools }

Use the service worker to send messages between the DevTools page and content scripts.

> To send a message _to_ a content script, the service worker can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send a message _to_ a content script, the service worker calls
```

> [`tabs.sendMessage()`][api-scripting-sendmessage] method, which directs a message to the content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`tabs.sendMessage()`][api-scripting-sendmessage], which directs a message to the content
```

Author: Every other place on this page that introduces a method uses the "the [name] method" phrasing. What makes this one different?

});
```

### Send messages from injected scripts to the DevTools page {: #evaluated-scripts-to-devtools }

Code injected directly into the page without a content script, including by appending a `<script>`

> tag or using [`inspectedWindow.eval()`][api-inspectedwindow-eval], can't send messages to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tag or calling [`inspectedWindow.eval()`][api-inspectedwindow-eval], can't send messages to the
```

## DevTools extension examples

> Browse the source of these DevTools extension examples: <!--Does this mean that the examples on this page come from these links? Or that these links provide more examples? How is this section different from the "examples" section at the end?-->

Reviewer: The former. We have yet to convert most of these to Manifest V3. @oliverdunk What's the priority new DevTools examples?

Author: Updated. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: > @oliverdunk What's the priority new DevTools examples?

My recollection is that most of our MV2 samples were too dated to be relevant (e.g using frameworks that have since disappeared). I think some new ones would be nice at some point but probably low priority.
